it's Jay and one of the expert TOEFL
teachers here at e2 language I told you
we're going to do writing but in fact
we're going to look at speaking because
yesterday we had an official person from
ETS TOEFL come to our office and teach
us how to teach the TOEFL so that's
pretty cool so in this one we're going
to look at TOEFL speaking tasks one
which is independent practice which is
probably the easiest speaking task but
nevertheless you want to get it right
you want to get you've scored out of
four for this one so you want to get
four out of four so let's do this one do
it together first of all let me give you
an example of what you might see on test
day you might see something that says
this it says describe a film that left a
lasting impression on you and explain
why let's read that again describe a
film that left a lasting impression on
you and explain why be sure to include
specific details and examples in your
response let's break this down a little
bit because we must speak on topic okay
we have to talk about a film and we have
to talk about a film that left a lasting
impression in other words we need to
talk about a film that basically that we
like because all films that we like will
leave a lasting impression or talk about
a film that was in other words memorable
memorable okay one that is memorable and
we need to do thing need to do two
things well we need to firstly describe
the film and we need to explain why it
was memorable okay so we need to
describe and explain there are the two
verbs they're the two that's what we
have to do okay there's the verb and
there's the verb describe and explain in
addition to that and this is also very
important be sure to include specific
details so maybe when we're describing
the film we'll give specific details
about the genre of the film who the
characters where the actor maybe even
the director who knows and examples okay
for reasons why I think
so what do you have to do well you give
a description of the topic and address
all parts of the task which I just
showed you you must include details or
anecdotes from your personal experience
anecdotes means personal stories
personal stories ok personal stories
cool that's fine
so the rules are there so you have 15
seconds to prepare a response and you
have 45 seconds to speak so let's do one
let's see how you go so I want you to
prepare in 15 seconds and then you're
gonna have 45 seconds to speak
okay you have 45 seconds to speak
how did you go maybe give yourself a
score and a full already I'm gonna to
show you how you're scored I'm gonna
show you what a top score looks like I'm
gonna show you what it what the what the
TOEFL examiners are listening for and
they can give you a 0 a 1 2 3 or 4 okay
so in fact it's out of 5 because yeah
also you could get 0 so this is a top
score and this is why you're marked on
three things you might on delivery
language use and topic development let
me explain what each of these means so
delivery means that you use intonation
and stress properly what that means is
that you use up and down in your
sentences you don't just speak like this
because this would be very boring and
not just that but you have to think
about sentence stress we put emphasis in
your sentence but also word stress for
example do you say information or
information you emphasize the phone or
the internet because that can change the
way that somebody understands you in
fact it can change the meaning of the
word completely where the stress goes in
the world
you're also marked on York on how well
you pronounce the words so clear
pronunciation and good flow flow means
that you don't hesitate you don't stop
there's not too many arms or ours you
want to try to avoid coming and airing
as much as possible and just you're
easily understood language use means you
have a good range of grammar and
vocabulary so you can find those words
and you can put them into the sentence
correctly and the words that you do use
are precise precise word choice the
third thing you're graded on is topic
development which means your main idea
is clear so this asks you to describe a
film that
left a lasting impression on you so you
really have to make sure that everything
you talk about is about that film that
was memorable okay I'll give you a
sample in a second I'll do one you have
to give lots of reasons you have to show
clear progression which means that you
might use words like firstly in addition
you might want to use some of these
types of words to show progression
firstly in addition furthermore etc and
that last one is length and content is
appropriate now you don't have to speak
for the full 45 seconds if you answer
the question prompt in let's say 35
seconds that's fine but as long as you
answer the task completely so I'm going
to go back I'm gonna give you an me an
example let's do it again together
whoops where's my preparation time so
let me have 15 seconds to prepare
describe a film that left a lasting
impression on you and explain why okay
what film am I going to talk about I'm
going to talk about the Shawshank
Redemption I think it was a Steven
Spielberg film okay here we go
ready a film that I find particularly
memorable is called the Shawshank
Redemption I believe it was directed by
Steven Spielberg
it was the genre of the film is I guess
it's an adventure story it's about a man
called Andy Dufresne who breaks out of
prison with the help of his friend I
can't remember the actor's name but I
believe it's Morgan Freeman the film
centers around Andy Dufresne and shows
his development as a character and how
he makes his way out of prison
I guess the themes of the film are
really memorable themes such as hope and
desire and justice there we go
was it great not really it wasn't great
but it probably would have got a 5
because I I did all of those four things
correctly let's do another one let's do
another
here we go so 15 seconds to prepare
starts now
45 seconds to speak starts now
you
you go it's tough right mmm yeah yeah
yeah and these go give yourself a score
out of four please put it into the chat
I'll be curious to how you grade
yourself well what score would you give
yourself by the way if you're on YouTube
and you're watching this please click
like subscribe click the red button
below so whenever we release a video
you'll get notified David gives himself
a - that's right let me have a go at
this let me have a go I'll give you an
example let me go back okay so what am i
doing I'm talking about
okay talk about what subject you would
like to study at college and explain why
okay so I'm gonna talk about history I
want to study history
be sure to include specific details and
examples in your response
okay history history history that's fine
here we go if I were to go to college
again I would love to study history the
main reason being is that as I get older
I become more and more interested in
what has happened in the past rather
than what will happen I have come to
believe that learning about history can
actually predict what happens in the
future specifically I'd like to study
European history and Asian history and
also the history of Australia in
particular in addition to history I
would also like to study biology because
I believe it's also a part of history
and it would explain a lot of history
was it an award-winning speech not
really not bad though pretty good I
think I would have got the four because
my delivery because of vocabulary and
grammar and because I developed the
topic from beginning to end
so yeah it's not it's not that hard but
there are a few little key things in
there
I think what I did well then was I used
words like specifically in addition I
think they're important logical
connecting words I spoke very clearly
I resisted saying um ah or making any
noises like that
I just tried to speak as clearly as I
possibly could I also spoke at quite a
moderate pace so not too quickly not too
slowly you see what will happen on test
day no doubt is you'll be nervous I
don't know what you do when you're
nervous but usually I stray I speak
quickly so I had to remind myself to
slow down speak in a moderate pace cool
that was a short one guys if you need
help by the way do check out this
website WWE - language comm we're now
running we can sign up I think we've got
$15 fifteen us course for one week get
full access to the platform including
hundreds and hundreds of practice
questions and methods lessons we also
have a one-month package and a six-month
package as well or if you need extra
help we have the premium packages where
you can get tutorials feedback on your
writing and speaking
etc there's heaps and heaps there so do
check out that website right now though
I'm gonna do some Q&A so if you have any
questions feel free to put them into the
chat cool shruti got a fire arena got a
three that's okay maybe you're hard on
yourself alright any questions any
questions please put them into the chat
is it good to paraphrase the question
says David yeah yeah yep I think so so
for example that first one that said
talk about a film that left an
impression on you well what I said was a
film that I find quite memorable was the
Shawshank Redemption so that was kind of
paraphrasing it wasn't it like leave
left an impression impression found it
memorable these are synonyms it's a good
idea I agree Ricardo thank you for the
class there is a methodology that makes
the answer easier
not really because it's 45 seconds
there's no real structure or template
and really is a matter of in those 15
seconds go so quickly you really don't
have time to plan all you need to do is
think okay what film will I talk about
and you know what just talk about the
first one that pops into your mind for
me it was Shawshank Redemption do I even
like Shawshank Redemption it's
definitely not my favorite film but I
just it just popped into my mind said
and the second thing was do I really
want to study history probably not but
it was the first thing that popped into
my mind
and I don't have time to go maybe not
history maybe I'll talk about chemistry
nah no chemistry would be boring physics
would be more interesting to talk about
no I don't there's not enough time just
go history all you need are a few
reasons a few examples you pull it all
together and that's that cool no other
questions here we go arena is there any
list of topics used in TOEFL speaking
section ah I don't know a resource for
that I can't point you to a resource but
I would I dare say that there would be
many this one independent speaking is
just task one is just simple everyday
non-academic topics so if you're
comfortable in just conversational
English you should be okay because it's
going to be stuff like movies books you
know college subjects something like
that pretty straightforward John first
of all I don't know this English lesson
is in live or not second of all I guess
that behind this camera can we
participate directly in the topic for
instance about history don't know what
you mean this is definitely live David
is the budget package will ETS course
speaking and writing tests No
if you want feedback on your writing and
speaking or tutorials then you'll have
to buy a premium package they start with
the bronze package so it depends what
you need David if you need help you
should get help because if you're
immigrations depending on this this is
important and feedback will certainly
help you out so I highly recommend our
teachers our feedback our tutorials are
very good cool alright guys I might
leave it there thanks very much for
coming along I appreciate it I hope it
was helpful come along next time we'll
do more and more check out the website
there's heaps of free stuff on the
website for you as well talk to you soon
you